(upbeat hip hop music)
So far, everything we've been learning
has been just JavaScript as part of the core language,
and while JavaScript
can be run in many types of environment,
so it can be run in the browser,
it can be run on the server,
you can run it on robots.
Um, a lot of places use JavaScript
as a scripting environment,
in fact my kid has some toys
and if you want to be able to script the toy,
you can run it in JavaScript.
Um probably the most popular and probably the way
that most people get introduced to JavaScript
is through the web browser.
Uh the web browser,
the web browser (laughs).
Uh a big part of working with JavaScript in the web browser
is interacting with elements on a page.
So when you write html and view it in the browser,
the browser turns your html into something that is called
the Document Object Model or the DOM,
and that's actually exactly what you see
when you go to the elements panel on absolutely any website.
So once we have all of our html
and it's been turned into the DOM,
is again what you see here in the elements panel
is, is not actually just the html that you've written,
it actually takes that,
converts it into the Document Object Model,
I'm gonna call it the DOM for the rest of this course,
um and it allows us to interface with the DOM via JavaScript
and we can do things
like we can listen for clicks and scrolls,
uh we can add,
remove or modify elements to that page,
things like text and images et cetera,
we can add or remove classes to elements
that can trigger CSS animations,
we can fetch new data,
uh we can play music and video
and we can add any type of interaction to the page,
and that is done by writing JavaScript
that interfaces with the DOM,
again the DOM is the things that are on the page,
the elements on the page.
So,
the DOM is represented in a tree
that looks very much like html,
and that's kinda why it's probably familiar to you,
seeing it in the elements panel here.
Um even if you plan on using a framework like React,
or Angular,
or, um,
View,
or whatever the framework of choice is at the moment,
um, it's very, very helpful
to understand the concepts of the DOM
because the core concepts of the DOM,
like events and elements and classes,
they transcend all of the different frameworks
even if the frameworks help you,
help you do these things,
um, you still have to understand
how they work under the hood,
as well as I feel like when you're learning JavaScript
and you are building actual things that you can click,
and hover and add elements,
and remove elements,
I feel like you can learn a lot better
than just doing most of the stuff we've done so far,
which is looping over stuff,
and console logging
and creating functions.
So, let's have a quick, quick refresher on the window.
I remember we talked about in the scope,
we learned about the global scope in the browser
is called the window,
um and the window
is where all of our global variables are stored
as well as helpful properties like,
there's actually like Window.Location
if you go into any website and type in a Window.Location,
or if you just type in a location,
that's the same thing,
because window is a global variable.
It's either a global variable or a property on window,
they're the same thing.
Um, you can open that up and there's just this object
that's full of information
about what the current page you're on,
what the host name is,
what the protocol is if we we're on a specific port,
um it would be showing us that info.
We can either find...,
also find things like, like
innerWidth that'll tell you how wide the actual browser is,
if I make that sucker a little bit bigger
and check it again,
it will tell us the width and the height rate,
those are global variables.
You can think of the window
as everything about the currently open window,
including the browser bar,
the tabs,
the scrollbars,
all of the stuff about your actual browser window,
is generally stored inside of the window object.
Now we're going to introduce you to another thing
which is called the document,
and the document is responsible for everything
from the opening html tag,
actually (laughs) the doc type as well,
to the closing html tag.
So um again,
the document is not concerned with tabs,
and outside and stuff like that,
it's just concerned with the actual entire DOM,
or the entire,
that's why it's called the DOM,
the Document Object Model,
so the entire document is gonna be accessible to us
via the document key word.
It's actually,
if you type it in,
and you hover over what it returns,
you'll see that it highlights the entire page.
We additionally have something called the navigator,
and the navigator is just sort of a higher level
um thing than the window that gives you information about,
not just the browser,
but the device itself,
the device that it's on.
So think about things like,
webcam and audio access,
and battery level,
GPS coordinates,
um things that are sort of device specific
will live on the navigator,
we'll look at some examples to go there.
But right now we just need to know that,
we had window,
which contains a lot of information about the browser,
but the document doc is going to contain everything
about the current web page,
from the opening html to the closing html tag.
So with that,
let's get jumping into selecting elements on the page.